DBZ-78 add Debezium auto-creation topics configuration documentation (#1813)
debezium/debezium: documentation/modules/ROOT/pages/configuration/topic-auto-create-config.adoc

// Category: debezium-using
// Type: assembly
// ModuleID: configuring-debezium-to-auto-create-change-data-capture-topics
// Title: Configuring {prodname} to use automatically create topics
[id="cdc-topic-auto-create-config"]
= Custom Topic Auto-Creation

:toc:
:toc-placement: macro
:linkattrs:
:icons: font
:source-highlighter: highlight.js

toc::[]

{prodname} automatically creates *internal* topics for offsets, connector status, config
storage and history topics. The destination topics for the captured tables will be
automatically created with a default config by the Kafka brokers when

> `auto.create.topics.enable` is enabled.{empty} +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`auto.create.topics.enable` is set to `true`.{empty} +
```

Author: Done

When topic creation is disabled on the brokers, for example in production environments,
or when the topics need a different configuration then these topics have to be created
upfront either automated in a custom deployment process or manually until Kafka Connect 2.6.

Since Kafka 2.6.0 Kafka Connect supports customizable topic auto-creation.

== Kafka Connect

Kafka Connect since Kafka 2.6.0 comes with topic creation enabled:

[source,options="nowrap",shell]
----
topic.creation.enable = true
----

// TODO: how to express this for downstream?
[NOTE]
====
If you don't want to allow automatic topic creation by connectors you can set this value to `false`
in the Kafka Connect config (_connect-distributed.properties_ file or via environment variable
_CONNECT_TOPIC_CREATION_ENABLE_ when using https://hub.docker.com/r/debezium/connect[Debezium's container image for Kafka Connect]).

> ====

Author: Can we use that for the downstream docs as well or do we need a different wording here?
What do you suggest? @gunnarmorling  @TovaCohen

Reviewer: No, for downstream this should refer to the connector CRD equivalent of this configuration.

Author: Do you have an example where we link to a CRD (parallel to the docker hub link)

Author: is it `{DockerKafkaConnect}` ?

Reviewer: See any connector doc page (under "example configuration").

Author: @gunnarmorling This is a CRD for a connector. The config needs to go to the Kafka Connect container env var.

Author: see below

== Configuration

Topic auto-creation is based on groups. Every custom group has an `include` and an
`exclude` property which are comma-separated lists of regular expressions matching
topic names that should be included or excluded.

[NOTE]
====
You can specify both, `include` and `exclude` parameters, but note that exclusion rules

> have precedent and override any inclusion rules for topics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
take precedence and override any inclusion rules for topics.
```

Author: Done

====

You don't have to specify any custom group. When there's no custom group registered or
the registered group's `include` patterns don't match the topic which is to be created
then the default config will be used.

> You can specify all https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#topicconfigs[*topic level configuration parameters*]

Reviewer: There's a var in antora.yml or similar for the Kafka docs base URL.

Author: Done

to customize how topics will be created.

=== Default Group Config

The default config can be passed in the connector config JSON like:

[source,options="nowrap",json]
----
{
    ...

    "topic.creation.default.replication.factor": 3,  //<1>
    "topic.creation.default.partitions": 10,  //<2>
    "topic.creation.default.cleanup.policy": "compact",  //<3>
    "topic.creation.default.compression.type": "lz4"  //<4>

     ...
}
----

.Connector configuration for the `default` topic creation group
[cols="1,9",options="header"]
|===
|Item |Description

|1
|`topic.creation.default.replication.factor` defines the replication factor for topics created by
the default group.

|2
|`topic.creation.default.partitions` defines the number of partitions for topics created by
the default group.

|3

> |`topic.creation.default.cleanup.policy` is mapped to the https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#cleanup.policy[`cleanup.policy`]

Reviewer: See above.

further restricted by the that `exlude` property.

|5
|`topic.creation.applicationlogs.exclude` defines a regular expression to match all topics that start
with `dbserver1.logs.applog-old-`. The config defined for the `applicationlogs` group will only be
applied when the topic name does *not* match the given regular expression. As there's also the
`include` property set for this group the `applicationlogs` group will only be applied to topics
which name matches the `include` regular expression/s *and* _not_ match the `exclude` regular
expression/s.
|===

=== Registering Custom Groups

Finally, we need to register the two defined custom groups `inventory` and `applicationlogs` with
the `topic.creation.groups` property:

[source,options="nowrap",json]
----
{
    ...

    "topic.creation.groups": "inventory,applicationlogs",

     ...
}
----

A complete connector JSON config will look like that:

[source,options="nowrap",json]
----
{
    ...

    "topic.creation.default.replication.factor": 3,
    "topic.creation.default.partitions": 10,
    "topic.creation.default.cleanup.policy": "compact",
    "topic.creation.default.compression.type": "lz4"

>     "topic.creation.groups": "inventory,applicationlogs",

Reviewer: Maybe add some empty lines between the groups?

Author: There are empty lines in the above separate examples. In this complete example I would like to have it very authentic, means all together.

Reviewer: You can have empty lines in your real-world JSON/CRD, too ;)

Author: I know. But don't! :D

    "topic.creation.inventory.include": "dbserver1\\.inventory\\.*",
    "topic.creation.inventory.replication.factor": 3,
    "topic.creation.inventory.partitions": 20,
    "topic.creation.inventory.cleanup.policy": "compact",
    "topic.creation.inventory.delete.retention.ms": 7776000000,
    "topic.creation.applicationlogs.include": "dbserver1\\.logs\\.applog-.*",
    "topic.creation.applicationlogs.exclude": "dbserver1\\.logs\\.applog-old-.*",
    "topic.creation.applicationlogs.replication.factor": 1,
    "topic.creation.applicationlogs.partitions": 20,
    "topic.creation.applicationlogs.cleanup.policy": "delete",
    "topic.creation.applicationlogs.retention.ms": 7776000000,
    "topic.creation.applicationlogs.compression.type": "lz4"
}
----

ifdef::community[]

> == Additional resources

Reviewer: An introductory sentence would be good: "To learn more about topic creation settings...".

Author: very good point! will do that.

Author: Done

- Debezium Blog: https://debezium.io/blog/2020/09/15/debezium-auto-create-topics/[Auto-creating Debezium Change Data Topics]
- Kafka Improvement Proposal about adding topic auto-creation to Kafka Connect: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/KAFKA/KIP-158%3A+Kafka+Connect+should+allow+source+connectors+to+set+topic-specific+settings+for+new+topics[KIP-158]

> endif::community[]

Author: I only allowed these resources in community. Is that fine or can this be in the downstream docs as well?

Reviewer: No, we typically don't link to blogs/upstream from prod docs.

Author: So yes, it's fine then?

Reviewer: Yeah :)

or when the topics need a different configuration then these topics have to be created
upfront either automated in a custom deployment process or manually until Kafka Connect 2.6.

Since Kafka 2.6.0 Kafka Connect supports customizable topic auto-creation.

== Kafka Connect

Kafka Connect since Kafka 2.6.0 comes with topic creation enabled:

[source,options="nowrap",shell]
----
topic.creation.enable = true
----

ifdef::community[]
[NOTE]
====
If you don't want to allow automatic topic creation by connectors you can set this value to `false`
in the Kafka Connect config (_connect-distributed.properties_ file or via environment variable
_CONNECT_TOPIC_CREATION_ENABLE_ when using https://hub.docker.com/r/debezium/connect[{prodname}'s container image for Kafka Connect]).
====
endif::community[]

ifdef::product[]
[NOTE]
====
If you don't want to allow automatic topic creation by connectors you can set this value to `false`
in the Kafka Connect CRD:
====

[source,yaml,options="nowrap"]
----
apiVersion: kafka.strimzi.io/v1beta1
kind: KafkaConnect
metadata:
  name: my-connect-cluster

...

spec:
  config:
    topic.creation.enable: "false"
----

> endif::product[]

Author: is the above a correct example for it? WDYT? @gunnarmorling

Reviewer: In general, yes, it is. Problem though is that downstream isn't on AK 2.6 yet, so it doesn't really make sense to have this here yet. But it's not a problem, as this page will not be added to downstream docs without explicit opt-in. Can you please log a Jira issue for tracking that for 1.3. Thanks!

Author: @TovaCohen  already created https://issues.redhat.com/browse/FUSEDOC-4157 to handle adding and styling of that docs section. It's also already annotated for the downstream module handling.

Reviewer: Ah, just seeing below this issue already exists. All good then.
